Be it enacted by the people of the State of Oklahoma that the Oklahoma constitution shall be amended by adding a new article 31, sections 1.A to 1.G as follows: 

Section 1 – Medical Marijuana Section
 1.A - General Provisions and Individual Qualifications: 

➢ Provides that marijuana be classified as a non-legend herbal drug regulated by the Oklahoma State Department of Health 

➢ Provides that the Oklahoma State Department of Health will be granted rule making authority under the Administrative Procedures Act to implement and enforce the provisions of this measure. 

➢ Provides that the Oklahoma State Department of Health will regulate the awarding of medical marijuana licenses, retail licenses, transportation licenses, growing licenses, and processing licenses. Further that the Oklahoma State Department of Health will only have oversight in three very specific areas. Those being the tracking of marijuana sales, the tracking of marijuana by weight of marijuana produced, sold, and repackaged, and the inspection and compliance of processors producing food products with marijuana as an additive. 

➢ Provides for the dispensing and consumption of marijuana for medicinal purposes. That a person in possession of a state issued medical marijuana card can consume marijuana legally. 

➢ Provides that possession of up to one and a half (1.5) ounces of marijuana by persons who can state a qualifying medical condition, but not in possession of a state issued medical marijuana license, shall constitute a misdemeanor offense with a fine not to exceed $400 

➢ Provides that possession of up to six (6) marijuana plants, by persons who can state a qualifying medical condition, but not in possession of a state issued medical marijuana license, shall constitute a misdemeanor offense with a fine not to exceed $400 

➢ Provides that persons with a qualifying medical license can be in legal possession of up to three (3) ounces of marijuana and six (6) marijuana plants. 

➢ Provides that persons with a qualifying medical license can be in possession of concentrated marijuana, in any form, which would equate to three (3) ounces of dried marijuana. 

➢ To enact a regulatory office under the Oklahoma State Department of Health which will receive applications for medical license recipients, dispensaries, growers, and packagers within 120 days of the passage of this initiative. 

➢ Provides for a tax on medical marijuana sales at 7% of total sale. This tax will be collected at the point of sale. Tax proceeds will go to first, finance the regulatory office. Should proceeds exceed the budgeted amount for running the regulatory office, any surplus would be split with 75% going to the Oklahoma State Education general fund and 25% going to the Oklahoma State Department of Health and earmarked for Drug and Alcohol rehabilitation. 

➢ To provide that the Oklahoma State Department of Health shall, within 30 days of passage of this initiative, make available, on their website, in an easy to find location, an application for a medical marijuana license. The license will be good for one year, and the application fee will be $100. The methods of payment will be provided on the website. 

➢ A temporary license application will also be available on the Oklahoma Department of Health website. A temporary medical marijuana license will be granted to any medical marijuana license holder from other states, provided that the state has a federally regulated medical marijuana program, and the applicant can prove they are a member of such. Temporary licenses will be issued for 30 days. Renewal will be granted with resubmission of a new application. No additional criteria will be required. 

➢ To provide that medical marijuana license applicants will submit their application to the Oklahoma State Department of Health for approval and that the applicant must be an Oklahoma State resident and shall prove residency by a valid drivers license, utility bills, or other accepted methods.

➢ To provide that the Oklahoma State Department of Health shall review the medical marijuana application, approve/reject the application, and mail the applicants approval or rejection letter (stating reasons for rejection) to the applicant with 14 days of receipt of the application. Approved applicants will be issued a medical marijuana card which will act as proof of their approved status. 

➢ To provide that the Oklahoma State Department of Health department only keeps the following records: a digital photograph of the cardholder, the expiration date of the ID card, the county where the card was issued, and a unique 24 character identification number assigned to the card. These are also the only data that is printed on the cards themselves.

➢ To provide that the valid status of the identification number is made publicly available on the Oklahoman Department of Health website in an easy to find location and made available through an automated phone system, with the telephone number printed on the card.

➢ To provide any additional application information and records are sealed to ensure the privacy of the cardholders and can only be obtained by subpoena.

➢ To provide that the Oklahoma State Department of Health must approve all applications which meet the criteria specified in this initiative without application of any subjective criteria. 

➢ To provide that a caregiver license will be made available for qualified caregivers of a medical marijuana license holder who is homebound. The caregiver license will give the caregiver the same rights as the medical license holder. Applicants for a caregiver license need to submit proof of the medical marijuana license holders homebound status, must submit proof that the caregiver is age 18 or older, and must submit proof the caregiver is an Oklahoma resident. This will be the only criteria for a caregiver license. Licensed caregivers will be issued a caregiver card which will give the cardholder the same rights as a medical marijuana licensee. 

➢ Provides that all applicants must be 18 years or older. A special exception will be granted to an applicant under the age of 18, however these applications must be accompanied by a letter stating qualified medical conditions, and signed by 2 physicians and the applicants parent or legal guardian. 

➢ To provide that all applications for a medical card must be signed by an Oklahoma Board certified physician. A medical marijuana license must be prescribed according to the accepted standards that a reasonable and prudent physician would follow when recommending or approving any medication.

➢ To provide that no signing physician be stigmatized or otherwise called out for being an application signatory by any state agency. 

➢ To provide that qualifying conditions for a medical marijuana card be defined as follows: o Acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS), HIV infection o Anorexia, Cachexia o Arthritis o Cancer o Chronic pain o Glaucoma o Migraine headaches or chronic headaches o Persistent muscle spasms, multiple sclerosis o Seizures and Epilepsy o Severe nausea o ADD, ADHD o Depression o Anxiety o Posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) o Insomnia o PMS symptoms o Painful Periods o Hepatitis C o Inflammatory bowel disease (IBS) o Colitis (Chron's Disease or Ulcerative Colitis) o Urinary incontinence o Chronic abdominal pain o Chronic pelvic pain o Neuropathy o Neuralgia o Chronic low back pain o Asthma o Parkinson's disease o Huntington's chorea o Multiple Sclerosis o Wasting syndrome o A chronic or debilitating disease or medical condition or the treatment for a chronic or debilitating disease or medical condition that causes: o Cachexia or wasting syndrome; o Severe and chronic pain; o Severe nausea; o Seizures, including those characteristic of epilepsy; o Severe or persistent muscle spasms, including those characteristic of multiple sclerosis 

➢ To provide that in January and July of each calendar year, the Oklahoma State Department of Health will accept written requests to add a medical condition to the list of qualifying medical conditions. The requirements for completing a request to add a medical condition include: o The name of the medical condition or the treatment of the medical condition the individual is requesting be added; o A description of the symptoms and how they make it hard to do daily living activities. The availability of conventional medical treatments to provide therapy or comfort for the condition; o A summary of the evidence that marijuana will provide therapy or comfort for the medical condition; and o Articles, published in peer-reviewed scientific journals, reporting research on the effects of marijuana on the medical condition or the treatment of the medical condition supporting why the medical condition or the treatment of the medical condition should be added. 

Section 1.B - Retail Application, Qualifications, and Regulatory Provisions 

➢ Provides that The Oklahoma State department of Health will within 30 days of passage of this initiative, make available, on their website, in an easy to find location, an application for a medical marijuana dispensary license. Application fee will be $2500 and a method of payment will be provided on the website. The Oklahoma State Department of Health must make the current status of the application available as defined in Section 1.F.

➢ Provides that dispensary applicants must all be Oklahoma state residents for at least 1 year. Any entity applying for a dispensary license must be owned by an Oklahoma State resident and must be registered to do business in Oklahoma. The Oklahoma State Department of Health has two (2) weeks to review the application, approve or reject the application, and mail the approval/rejection letter (if rejected, stating reasons for rejection) to the applicant. The Oklahoma State Department of Health must approve all applications which meet the criteria specified in this initiative without subjective criteria. 

➢ Provides that the Oklahoma State Department of Health will issue a retail license and a transportation license to retailers that meet the following qualifications:

Applicant must be age 25 or older
Any applicant, applying as an Individual, must show residency in the state of Oklahoma
All applying entities must show that all members, managers, board members, shareholders, or owners are Oklahoma residents
All applying entities must be registered to conduct business in the state of Oklahoma
All applicants must disclose all ownership 

➢ Provides that an approved retail applicant be issued the following: 

A retail license, which will be clearly displayed in the retail operation, and which will grant the retailer the rights outlined in this initiative 
A transportation license which will allow the legal transportation of marijuana as specified in Section 1.E 

➢ Provides that retailers will be required to complete a monthly sales report to the Oklahoma Department of Health. This report will be due on the 15th of each month and provide reporting on the previous month. This report will detail the weight of marijuana purchased at wholesale and the weight of marijuana sold to card holders, and account for any waste. Additionally, this report will show total sales in dollars, tax collected in dollars, and tax due in dollars. The Oklahoma state department of health will have oversight and auditing responsibilities to ensure that all marijuana being grown is accounted for. A retailer will only be subject to a penalty if a gross discrepancy exists and cannot be explained. Penalties for fraudulent reporting will be an initial fine of $5,000 (first) and revocation of licensing (second). 


➢ Provides that only a licensed medical marijuana retailer may conduct retail sales of marijuana, or marijuana derivatives in the form provided by licensed packagers, and that these products can only be sold to a medical marijuana license holder or their caregiver. 

Section 1.C - Growers Application, Qualification, and Regulatory Provisions 

➢ Provides that the Oklahoma State department of Health will within 30 days of passage of this initiative, make available, on their website, in an easy to find location, an application for a medical marijuana grower. Application fee will be $2500 and methods of payment will be provided on the website.  The Oklahoma State Department of Health must make the current status of the application available as defined in Section 1.F.

➢ Provides that grower applicants must all be Oklahoma state residents and be at least 21 years of age. Any entity applying for a growing license must be held by an Oklahoma State resident and must be registered to do business in Oklahoma. 

➢ Provides that the Oklahoma State Department of Health has two (2) weeks to review the application, approve/reject the application, and mail the approval/rejection letter (stating reasons for rejection) to the applicant 

➢ Provides that the Oklahoma State Department of Health must approve all applications which meet the criteria specified in this initiative and shall apply no subjective criteria for qualification. 

➢ Provides that the Oklahoma State Department of Health will issue a growing and transportation license to growers who meet the following qualifications:
Any applicant, applying as an Individual, must show residency in the state of Oklahoma.
All applying entities must show that all members, managers, board members, shareholders, or owners are Oklahoma residents
All applying entities must be registered to conduct business in the state of Oklahoma
All applicants must disclose all ownership 

➢ Provides that an approved grower applicant be issued the following:
A growing license, which will be clearly displayed in any area of the growing operation where marijuana is grown
A transportation license which will allow the legal transportation of marijuana as specified in Section 1.E 

➢ Provides that a licensed grower may sell marijuana to a licensed retailer, or a licensed packager. Further, these sales will be consider wholesale sales and not subject to taxation. 

➢ Under no circumstances may a licensed grower sell marijuana directly to a medical marijuana license holder. A licensed grower may only sell at the wholesale level to a licensed retailer or a licensed packager. If the federal government lifts restrictions on buying and selling marijuana between states, then a licensed grower would be allowed to sell and buy marijuana wholesale from, or to, an out of state wholesale provider. 

➢ Provides that growers will be required to complete a monthly yield and sales report to the Oklahoma Department of Health. This report will be due on the 15th of each month and provide reporting on the previous month. This report will detail amount of marijuana harvested in lbs, the amount of drying or dried marijuana on hand, the amount of marijuana sold to processors in lbs, the amount of waste in lbs, and the amount of marijuana sold to retailers in lbs. Additionally, this report will show total wholesale sales in dollars. The Oklahoma state department of health will have oversight and auditing responsibilities to ensure that all marijuana being grown is accounted for. A licensed grower will only be subject to a penalty if a gross discrepancy exists and cannot be explained. Penalties for fraudulent reporting will be an initial fine of $5,000 (first) and revocation of licensing (second). 

Section 1.D - Processing Application, Qualification, and Regulatory Provisions 

➢ Provides that the Oklahoma State department of Health will within 30 days of passage of this initiative, make available, on their website, in an easy to find location, an application for a medical marijuana packaging. Application fee will be $2500 and methods of payment will be provided on the website. The Oklahoma State Department of Health must make the current status of the application available as defined in Section 1.F.

➢ Provides that a licensed processor may take marijuana plants and distill these plants into concentrates, edibles, and other forms for consumption. 

➢ Provides that processing applicants must all be Oklahoma state residents and be at least 21 years of age. Any entity applying for a processing license must be held by an Oklahoma State resident and must be registered to do business in Oklahoma. 

➢ Provides that the Oklahoma State Department of Health has two (2) weeks to review the application, approve/reject the application, and mail the approval/rejection letter (stating reasons for rejection) to the applicant 

➢ Provides that the Oklahoma State Department of Health must approve all applications which meet the criteria specified in this initiative and shall apply no subjective criteria for the process. 

➢ Provides that the Oklahoma State Department of Health will issue a packaging license and a transportation license to applicants who meet the following qualifying conditions:
Any applicant, applying as an Individual, must show residency in the state of Oklahoma.
All applying entities must show that all members, managers, board members, shareholders, or owners are Oklahoma residents
All applying entities must be registered to conduct business in the state of Oklahoma

 ➢ Provides that an approved processing applicant be issued the following:
A processing license, which will be clearly displayed in any area of the operation where marijuana is being processed. If the facility is large then it must be displayed in the main office area.
A transportation license which will allow the legal transportation of marijuana as specified in Section 1.E 

➢ Provides that the Oklahoma State Department of Health will, within 30 days of passage of this initiative, make available a set of guidelines and inspection criteria for oversight of licensed processors preparation of edible marijuana products. This should be in line with current food preparation guidelines and no excessive or punitive rules may be established by the Oklahoma State Department of Health. 

➢ Provides that once a year, the Oklahoma State Department of Health may inspect a processing operation and determine its compliance with the preparation guidelines. If deficiencies are found, a written report of deficiency will be issued to the packager. The packager will have one (1) month to correct the deficiency or be subject to a $500 fine. 

➢ Provides that a licensed processor may sell marijuana products it creates to a licensed retailer, or another licensed processor. Further, these sales will be consider wholesale sales and not subject to taxation. 

➢ Provides that under no circumstances may a licensed processor sell marijuana, or any marijuana product, directly to a medical marijuana license holder. 

➢ Provides that processors will be required to complete a monthly yield and sales report to the Oklahoma Department of Health. This report will be due on the 15th of each month and provide reporting on the previous month. This report will detail amount of marijuana purchased in lbs, the amount of marijuana cooked or processed in lbs, and the amount of waste in lbs. Additionally, this report will show total wholesale sales in dollars. The Oklahoma state department of health will have oversight and auditing responsibilities to ensure that all marijuana being grown is accounted for. A licensed processor will only be subject to a penalty if a gross discrepancy exists and cannot be explained. Penalties for fraudulent reporting will be an initial fine of $5,000 (first) and revocation of licensing (second). 

Section 1.E - Transportation 

➢ Provides that a marijuana transportation license will be issued to qualifying applicants for a marijuana retail, growing, or processing license. The transportation license will be issued at the time of approval of a retail, growing, or processing license. 

➢ Provides that a transportation license will allow the holder, or holders employees, to transport marijuana from an Oklahoma licensed medical marijuana retailer, licensed growing facility, or licensed processor facility to an Oklahoma licensed medical marijuana retailer, licensed growing facility, or licensed processing facility. 

➢ Provides that all marijuana or marijuana products be transported in a sealed container and clearly labeled “Medical Marijuana or Derivative” 

Section 1.F – Transparency and Accountability
➢ To provide that all license requests are processed according to the order in which they are received.

➢  To provide that the Oklahoma State Department of Health will within 30 days of passage of this initiative, make available, on their website, in an easy to find location, the following information pertaining to the status of dispensary or growing license requests:

Name of applying entity
Date of application
Application Status

➢ To provide that the  Oklahoma State Department of Health will make available license requests received and approved each monthly period on their website, in an easy to find location.

➢ To provide that the Oklahoma State Department of Health will make available data pertaining to the monthly sales, yield, and other data aggregated in monthly reports reported by retail, growing, and processing license holders. This data is to be anonymized of personally identifiable information to ensure the privacy of the license holders.
Section 1.G – County and Municipal Powers
➢ To provider that counties and municipalities may adopt regulations that allow qualified patients or primary caregivers to possess medical marijuana in amounts that exceed the Oklahoma State Constitution's possession guidelines.